Spain Norway and Ireland have said that
they will recognize Palestinian
statehood many Western countries have
resisted recognizing an independent
Palestinian state for years but Israel's
war against Hamas after the October the
7th terror attack has put renewed focus
on the issue Israel's foreign minister
has denounced the decision as a threat
to the nation's sovereignty and
security barred off from Israel by
fences and barriers the Palestinian
territories will be formally recognized
as a state by three more European
countries Spain Ireland and Norway
choosing to support the Palestinian push
for
sovereignty a step they say towards
peace the time has come to move from
words to action to tell the millions of
innocent suffering Palestinians that we
are with them that there is hope and to
make it very clear but no matter how
many walls are erected no matter how
many villages are bombed and no matter
how many illegal settlements are built
the land and identity of Palestine will
continue to exist in our hearts in
international legality and in the future
project of a Mediterranean in harmony
previously 139 of 193 un countries
recognize the state of Palestine the
latest signatories calling on others to
do the same
in the midst of war with tens of
thousands of dead and injured we must
keep alive the only thing that can
provide a safe home for both Israelis
and Palestinians two states that can
live in peace with each other Israel and
Palestine Israel's government has hit
back regarding a Palestinian State there
are people who support this opinion and
there are people who do not but this is
not the place nor the time now to come
and unilaterally recognize a Palestinian
state
and any such decision harms Israeli
sovereignty and Israeli security and we
will not allow it I order to recall our
ambassadors back home and we will take
all measures to prevent
that President Mahmud Abbas the leader
of the Palestinian Authority welcomed
the recognition and called on other
nations to quote support the struggle of
our people for Liberation and
Independence earlier I spoke to DW Corr
respondents Rebecca rers in Jerusalem
and Jack parck in Brussels I started by
asking Jack what this recognition
means well it is a political statement
and it's also a very symbolic one
obviously the Spanish prime minister uh
Pedro Sanchez when he announced made the
announcement in Madrid earlier today he
said that the recognition serves to tell
the Palestinians we are with you Simon
Harris the leader in Ireland he said
that the recognition of the pal it's a
recognition of the Palestinian people to
their right to selfdetermination it is a
really significant move for the three
countries it is symbolic they're not
necessarily the biggest diplomatic uh
powers of Europe but they have been
making uh they've been saying that
they're going to do this for some time
all of them it will come into Force this
recognition on May the 28th there were
other countries Belgium was perhaps
going to be expected to do this
alongside them we do know that there are
moves here in Belgium to make a similar
announcement and indeed potentially in
France as well now what although it is
symbolic it is also significant because
Arab countries have said that they will
only be involved in the sort of policing
of a reconstruction of a post-war Gaza
if Western Nations recognize a state in
Palestine so the more countries that do
that the more support that there would
be from those Arab Nations to fund
firstly a post-war uh Palestinian State
okay and looking at reactions from
Israel Rebecca Israel has now recalled
its ambassadors to the three countries
what else is Israel doing and
saying well this announcement has drawn
Fury from Israel probably unsurprisingly
to most viewers Israel completely
opposes the decision that has been
announced this joint decision by Spain
uh Ireland and Norway um Benjamin netan
who has long said that establishing a
pal pales inian state would be an
existential danger to Israel and and
been standing against it certainly since
uh the war that began on October 7 as
you mentioned the ambassadors to those
three countries have been recalled and
they are looking at further measures the
Finance Minister betel smotrich has
called for further punitive measures uh
and said that he will be withholding tax
uh that Israel collects uh and then
gives to the Palestinian collects for
the Palestinian Authority and then hands
over he'll be withholding those taxes
they'll be looking at further punitive
measures now um in response to this the
foreign minister this morning said that
it sends a message to Palestinians and
to the world that terrorism pays he also
said that it will harm efforts to uh
retrieve the remaining hostages inside
Gaza so a very strong reaction from
Israel on the Palestinian side we've
seen a much more positive response
obviously uh the Palestinian Authority
who have always been fighting for a
two-state solution have acted positively
and Hamas has also come out to say that
they think this is a step in the right
direction and we're joined Now by nura
erat a human rights attorney and
assistant professor at Ruckers
University in the US welcome to DW it's
great to have you on the show can I uh
start by asking you what difference uh
today's announcements make do do they
bring a Palestinian state closer to
reality I think that we need to
understand these statements as mostly
symbolic without the weight of
accountability and action that's
necessary in 2012 138 states recognize
Palestine as a state and yet we are in a
condition right now of apartheid where a
state is not going to rectify that
racial Colonial structure that regulates
all of Palestinian lives and has led us
to this moment where we see it uh enact
an entire genocide against Palestinians
who seen as as uh not desired on that
land I think what would much more
worthwhile I should I should just stop
you there because of course those are
terms that are highly disputed and and
rejected by Israel absolutely but but do
carry on please do make your point yeah
has also rejected that it's actually
that that there is a Palestine and I
think that we should take everything
that Israel says with an incredible
grain of salt how dare it uh insult
these countries and and and say and and
recall its ambassadors when the entire
Ron D of the peace so-called peace
process was to establish a Palestinian
State how dare Israel have this reaction
when 138 states have have already
endorsed the Palestinian state or where
there has been an international
consensus since 1967 that the occupation
of the territories is illegal so for us
to tiptoe around these words which are
in international law and have been
established by several human rights
Legacy organizations is to basically
submit to the dictates of a country that
would like to make aarthi normalized all
right and um Nora do you expect other
countries to follow the lead of um
Ireland uh and uh uh Norway and
Spain I think if we're just focusing on
the EU we see this as a tremendous step
forward but the majority of the world
has already supported Palestinian
self-determination more than that they
have supported an end to aparti and at
this moment I hope that they follow the
lead by actually issuing arrest warrants
for Netanyahu and Galant when they step
on their soil by enacting sanctions
against settlement Enterprise and other
military Industrial Enterprises by
actually stopping the transfer of
weapons that are continuing a genocide
by engaging in the boycott that has been
called for by Palestinians in order to
stem the aparti of our time and to end
what's now days of a live stream
genocide Nora we're going to have to
stop you there obviously using the word
genocide this is something that's being
investigated by the international court
of justice but of course no legal
conclusion has been reached yet so we're
just going to have to leave it there uh
Nora erat thank you so much for your
time we appreciate
it that Duty thank you for having me
thank
you okay and for more on Germany's
position on Palestinian statehood we can
cross now to DW's Chief political editor
Misha kufner Misha tell us is there any
chance that Germany would also consider
recognizing a Palestinian
state it would in fact I'm here at the
meeting of the German French and polish
foreign ministers in Vima and Germany
maintains that um seeing a two-state
solution a Palestinian state is one of
its key foreign policy aims but when
you're talking about whether that's a
starting point or an outcome of a
political process Germany is more on the
outcome side and that means that this is
considered to be very much a far off go
goal at this moment in time after all
one of Germany's fundamental political
principles reason of State it's
called is the defense of Israel and
staying by Israel's side and the current
government under Benyamin Netanyahu of
course strictly rejects the two State
solution let alone declaring a
Palestinian state or recognizing a
Palestinian state anytime soon there is
a stark contrast to what Germany's
policy outlook for a stable and peaceful
Middle East is but it certainly won't
make any move in that direction of
recognizing a Palestinian State ahead of
those hopefully peace talks anytime in
the future Micha thanks so much that's
DW's Chief political editor mishaa
kufner